# Create a user with a specific UID & set a custom Home Directory for that user

**Problem statement:**  
For security reasons, the xFusionCorp Industries security team has decided to use custom Apache users for each web application hosted, rather than its default user. This will be the Apache user, so it shouldn't use the default home directory. Create the user as per the requirements given below:  
requirements:-  
a. Create a user named Kareem on App Server 1 in Stratos Datacenter.   
b. Set UID to 1208 and its home directory to /var/www/Kareem.   

## Tasks:-  
`a. Create a user named Kareem on App Server 1 in Stratos Datacenter.`  
`b. Set UID to 1208 and its home directory to /var/www/Kareem.`

### Requirements to perform the tasks:-  
 - username(which is on the App Server 1):- `tony`
 - password(for user tony): `Ir0nM@n`

You are going to perform these tasks from the `thor@jump_host` jumphost machine. So you will see the `thor@jump_host /$` as your initial shell terminal.

### Solution:-  

**( Sub-Task 1):-**  
- First `login to the App Server 1` and `switch to the root user` using the below commands. `You have to Enter the password for the tony user.`
```
ssh tony@172.16.238.10
```
- Switch to the root user using below command. `Enter password for the tony user when prompted`:-  
```
sudo -i
```    
Now you are a root user in the App Server 1.  

**( Sub-Task 2)**   
- Now `create a user named kareem` with a custom `UID as 1208` and `set its home directory to the /var/www/kareem` using below command `(one-line command task)`  
```
sudo adduser -u 1208 -m -d /var/www/kareem kareem
```
<br/>

**Note:-** You can perform `sub-task 2 one by one` like first `create the user kareem with UID 1208` then `create kareem home directory in /var/www/kareem` then `set kareem user's home directory to /var/www/kareem.` 
```
sudo useradd -u 1208 kareem
sudo mkdir /var/www/kareem
sudo usermod -d /var/www/kareem kareem
```  
<br/>  

# Done...  

[Linux(Level 1)-Home](https://github.com/swapnilAx/kodekloudengineertasks/tree/main/1.Linux(Level%201))  
[2.group_creation_and_user_assignment](https://github.com/swapnilAx/kodekloudengineertasks/blob/main/1.Linux(Level%201)/2.group_creation_and_user_assignment.md)  


